---
layout: post
title: Purpose
---
I want you to approach the ideas I am discussing with an open mind. I would not like to see a scenario where one goes through the entire article nitpicking every single idea looking for a flaw, and at the end, all you go away with is the flaws in logic that you find. I would like to take you through a thought journey where you can view life through my perspective. Challenge what you think and try to go through this journey with me.  
Like every single snowflake we are all unique. We each have attributes that are totally unique to us. This can be the way we observe certain things or the way we handle different situations. This uniqueness stems from one’s particular journey since conception. Each one of us starts life with a particular genetic makeup that is inherited from our respective family trees which govern how we grow. Everyone gets different nurturing from the belly to when we are self-sufficient. We go through different experiences that are novel to each one of us which shapes us differently. We are the result of the total action of the universe.  
Everyone is unique, so what? As we grow, we quickly identify what captures our attention. There are some things that we do and find as enjoyable no matter the difficulty. One can be engaged with the activity and not sense time ticking away. One finds it easy to enter “the Zone” while doing this activity. However, it is sad that very few of us get a chance to follow our passions into adulthood. Our passions take a back seat in favor of activities that society deems as milestones in our lives. These milestones can be finishing school, find employment, get a family and finally retire awaiting death. This to me is nothing different from being a replaceable cog in the machine of capitalism. So, to answer my question, we have more to offer the world than simply reproducing and grinding that 8 to 5, 24/7, 365 at a job that is mundane and repetitive requiring minimal brain power.  
Let us take some time and look at our ancestors. They lived in a period in our history where simply surviving was a blessing. They fought challenges such as starvation, disease and conflict among other problems which the modern man has been able to largely alleviate, at least to the larger percentage of the population. However, even with such limitations, they were able not only to survive but put in the time to innovate and create. Look at ancient marvels such as the pyramids, such endeavors were the fruits of multiple generations, one standing on the shoulder of another, one purpose driven individual passing the baton to another. As modern people, we should not be content in the comfort of the society that we inherited, rather use the resources at our disposal to craft an even better future for the next generation. 


